docs: Cluster Peering for OSS Technical Preview (#13433)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/cluster-peering/k8s.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Cluster Peering on Kubernetes
description: >-
  This page describes how to create peering connections, deploy services, export cluster services, and end peering connections for Consul cluster peering using Kubernetes (K8s).
---

# Cluster Peering on Kubernetes

> ~> This page covers features that are currently in _technical preview_. Features and functionality are subject to change. You should never use the technical preview release in secure environments or production scenarios. Features in technical preview may face performance and scaling issues, with limited support options available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
->**Cluster peering is currently in technical preview**: Functionality associated with cluster peering is subject to change. You should never use the technical preview release in secure environments or production scenarios. Features in technical preview may have performance issues, scaling issues, and limited support.
```

To establish a cluster peering connection on Kubernetes, you need to enable the feature in the Helm chart and create custom resource definitions for each side of the peering.

The following Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) are used to create and manage a peering connection:

- `PeeringAcceptor`: Generates a peering token and accepts an incoming peering connection.
- `PeeringDialer`: Uses a peering token to make an outbound peering connection with the cluster that generated the token.

## Prerequisites

To create and use cluster peering connections with Kubernetes, you need at least two Kubernetes clusters running in a flat network with Consul on Kubernetes v. 0.45 or later.

### Helm chart configuration
To establish cluster peering through Kubernetes, deploy clusters with the following Helm values.

```yaml
global:
  peering:
    enabled: true
connectInject:
  enabled: true
meshGateway:
  enabled: true
  replicas: 1
```

## Create a peering connection

To peer Kubernetes clusters running Consul, you need to create a peering token and share it with the other cluster.

> 1. In “cluster-01,” create the `PeeringAcceptor` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In `cluster-01`, create the `PeeringAcceptor` custom resource.
```
For style consistency, we should use monospace for all references to elements that appear in a configuration

---

# Cluster Peering on Kubernetes

~> **Cluster peering is currently in technical preview:** Functionality associated
with cluster peering is subject to change. You should never use the technical
preview release in secure environments or production scenarios. Features in
technical preview may have performance issues, scaling issues, and limited support.

To establish a cluster peering connection on Kubernetes, you need to enable the feature in the Helm chart and create custom resource definitions for each side of the peering.

The following Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) are used to create and manage a peering connection:

- `PeeringAcceptor`: Generates a peering token and accepts an incoming peering connection.
- `PeeringDialer`: Uses a peering token to make an outbound peering connection with the cluster that generated the token.

## Prerequisites

To create and use cluster peering connections with Kubernetes, you need at least two Kubernetes clusters running in a flat network with Consul on Kubernetes v.0.45 or later.

### Helm chart configuration

To establish cluster peering through Kubernetes, deploy clusters with the following Helm values.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

<CodeTabs heading="values.yaml">
<CodeBlockConfig lineNumbers>
```

```yaml

> global:
>   peering:
>     enabled: true
> connectInject:
>   enabled: true
> meshGateway:
>   enabled: true
>   replicas: 1
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
global:
  image: "hashicorp/consul:1.13.0-alpha2"
  peering:
    enabled: true
connectInject:
  enabled: true
meshGateway:
  enabled: true
  replicas: 1
```
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  </CodeBlockConfig>
  </CodeTabs>
  
Install Consul on Kubernetes using the values file `values.yaml` using the Helm CLI. 

```shell-session 
$ export HELM_RELEASE_NAME=peer1
$ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_NAME} hashicorp/consul --version "0.45.0" --values server.yaml
```

```

preview release in secure environments or production scenarios. Features in
technical preview may have performance issues, scaling issues, and limited support.

To establish a cluster peering connection on Kubernetes, you need to enable the feature in the Helm chart and create custom resource definitions for each side of the peering.

The following Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) are used to create and manage a peering connection:

- `PeeringAcceptor`: Generates a peering token and accepts an incoming peering connection.
- `PeeringDialer`: Uses a peering token to make an outbound peering connection with the cluster that generated the token.

## Prerequisites

To create and use cluster peering connections with Kubernetes, you need at least two Kubernetes clusters running in a flat network with Consul on Kubernetes v.0.45 or later.

### Helm chart configuration

To establish cluster peering through Kubernetes, deploy clusters with the following Helm values.

<CodeTabs heading="values.yaml">
<CodeBlockConfig lineNumbers>
```yaml
global:
  image: "hashicorp/consul:1.13.0-alpha2"
  peering:
    enabled: true
connectInject:
  enabled: true
meshGateway:
  enabled: true
  replicas: 1

>   </CodeBlockConfig>
>   </CodeTabs>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
</CodeBlockConfig>
</CodeTabs>
```

To establish a cluster peering connection on Kubernetes, you need to enable the feature in the Helm chart and create custom resource definitions for each side of the peering.

The following Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) are used to create and manage a peering connection:

- `PeeringAcceptor`: Generates a peering token and accepts an incoming peering connection.
- `PeeringDialer`: Uses a peering token to make an outbound peering connection with the cluster that generated the token.

## Prerequisites

To create and use cluster peering connections with Kubernetes, you need at least two Kubernetes clusters running in a flat network with Consul on Kubernetes v.0.45 or later.

### Helm chart configuration

To establish cluster peering through Kubernetes, deploy clusters with the following Helm values.

<CodeTabs heading="values.yaml">
<CodeBlockConfig lineNumbers>

```yaml
global:
  image: "hashicorp/consul:1.13.0-alpha2"
  peering:
    enabled: true
connectInject:
  enabled: true
meshGateway:
  enabled: true
  replicas: 1
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</CodeTabs>
  
Install Consul on Kubernetes on each Kubernetes cluster by applying `values.yaml` using the Helm CLI. 

```shell-session 

> $ export HELM_RELEASE_NAME=cluster-name
> $ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_NAME} hashicorp/consul --version "0.45.0" --values server.yaml

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
$ export HELM_RELEASE_NAME=cluster-name
```

```shell-session
$ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_NAME} hashicorp/consul --version "0.45.0" --values server.yaml
````

> $ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_NAME} hashicorp/consul --version "0.45.0" --values server.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_NAME} hashicorp/consul --version "0.45.0" --values values.yaml
```
